---
layout: post
title:  "My Exercise Regime"
---

To begin this with a naked truth, I must admit that wanting to be physically active was a far-fetched daydream for many years, owing to the immense lethargy lurking me for a long time. Diabetes has pushed my boundaries and taught me discipline, resulting in my enjoyment of a plethora of benefits that come along with regular workouts.

------------

The two greatest hurdles I face when I began regular workouts were sleep and hypoglycemia. Working out at any time of the day led to me dozing off in a few hours or oversleeping at night due to excess fatigue. Irresponsible insulin management also results in multiple hypoglycemic episodes during the day. 

I overcame the aforementioned obstacles by the following ways:

1. I began by blocking a time of my day for workouts and not changing that (pre-breakfast hour). With this, I'm done with the most difficult task of the day right at the beginning, giving me motivation to accomplish everything else.

2. My struggle with sleep was due to setting unrealistic goals for working out and lack of stretching after the same. I implement the latter regularly. I was once told that working out is rejuvenating, and it leads to wanting more. If you finish a workout feeling invigorated, it is the right amount. If it drains you, then you've worked out too much. That's how I knew where to draw my line.

3. I reduce my levels of long-acting insulin and carb-to-insulin ratio for the meal immediately after my workout (usually my breakfast). Otherwise, it leads to a vicious cycle of lows and highs that goes on throughout the day.

4. I eat a fibre and protein loaded meal for breakfast as it keeps me energized, retaining the after-effect of exercise for hours, and avoiding all kinds of drowsiness that comes with a carb-loaded greasy meal.


------------

I'm usually happy with working out 6 days a week (half to one hour each) and taking rest or stretching slightly on the 7th day. I enjoy 3 days of cardio (cycling or running) along with 3 days of strength training at home. I take things at my own pace and increment goals infinitesimally every day. I give my rest days utmost importance; and mandatorily 7 hours of sleep.